have you ever been lied to what if the
lie was so big that it affected your
life and everyone around you well that
lie persisted for well over a year until
it was finally deemed to be official
officially wrong that is you came here
for the truth so let me unveil that for
you we're going to start talking today
about transitory inflation you remember
that right here you can see it jome
Powell ditches the transitory tag paves
the way for a rate hike you remember
that ah yes yes yes it was a fun time to
be told each and every day that
transitory inflation was nothing to
worry about that because it was all
supply chain but here we are moving into
2024 and people are more burdened today
than they were the year before the year
before and the year before that means
inflation has gotten worse where is the
inflation well it's only 3%
wow must it must be just it must be
going away because if the goal is 2%
we're almost there and yet everything
that we are looking at is much more
expensive than it was last year and the
year before and so on so we know that
that isn't the case and of course
transitory inflation was talked about
not just by Jerome Powell we could point
the finger at Jerome Powell but it was
basically everybody 99% of people were
saying that and I was looking like a
fool on the other end saying it's not
Transit right no they printed a whole
bunch of money this is going to be bad
this is going to create some massive
inflation they're not going to be able
to stop until they increase interest
rates and guess what they did I said
they're going to increase they're going
to increase they're going to increase
and what do they do while everybody was
saying absolutely not there's too much
debt they're never going to do this
they'll crash the market they're going
to crash the economy I said yeah they're
going to do it they're going to increase
interest rates and they're going to keep
doing it and they're going to keep doing
it but it's going to cause a problem and
we know that here we are today UBS
projects inflation is coming to an end
but that's little Comfort to households
so yes if you are going to measure the
you know Consumer Price Index core pce
you know personal consumption that's
that's fine I mean you could do that and
you could say inflation is going down
but in actual fact inflation as you
experience price
inflation that isn't going down and so
we need to be honest about it okay we
can look at that we can look at CPI and
we can look at all these different
things why why would I even do that if I
know that it's not realistic it's
because businesses are using that to
determine things they're going to hire
and fire not based on the real rate of
inflation they're not going to say all
right listen uh we everybody here we
need to create a basket of goods and
then we're going to measure that basket
and and how it's performed over time and
then if it's higher than 3% then you
know we're going to do this and no
they're looking at the CPI they're
looking at the core pce and so that is a
problem no question and so the biggest
concern here is that what's really
happening like what's the the depth of
it all and you could see that clearly
people multiple job holders being one
example people are not in good standing
the inflation did take hold and they
need to get a second job just to be able
to pay for stuff is the US headed for a
recession look at what richer Americans
do on Black Friday the upper middle
class powered a spending boom that kept
us out of recession but there are
increasing signs of a Slowdown some say
we're in a recession right now now does
it really matter what I'm telling you is
that we enter a period in which they are
cutting interest rates that's going to
create more inflation that's what we
need to know we don't need to know are
they going to determine it's a recession
or not the the fact remains is that if
we go and we go slow from here on in the
the soft Landing they're going to cut
interest rates and that is scary that is
very I'm you know Halloween's over and
I'm still frightened okay retailers
serving wealthier Americans weeken
before the holidays and so you can see
that there's no question about it they
used you know what I would I don't know
if I would consider that you know the
wealthier Americans with with the stores
that they used um but the point here is
that when we look at this yes this is an
indication of the spending that's going
on visits to higher end malls fall after
the recovery okay so yeah people were
spending free money easy money oh you
increase interest rates uh-oh credit
cards are more expensive uh can't pull
the equity out of my home like I was
doing uh into 2020 when everything was
going wild and crazy housing prices were
going up by 50% un very people were
talking about the craziness of leading
up you know the irrational exuberance in
the housing bubble but house prices in
some cases were going up faster in 2020
2021 than they were during that period
so what's crazy right brands catering to
the upper middle class are struggling
like Nike I don't think that it is a you
know an upper middle class product but
anyway um this is just showing us yes
there there are certainly year-over-year
sales why because people don't need it
and if they don't need it they're not
buying it and that's what's going on us
retailers brace for a tough holiday
season despite discounts so they're
offering this they're trying to
liquidate they can't even get rid of it
in many cases and so you might see extra
discounts May maybe Black Friday is
actually reasonable in some cases
they're just bringing the price up we
see this on Amazon all the time
e-commerce sellers know about this uh
many of the sellers they spend this is
ridiculous I don't do this personally
they spend a period of time like a month
to slowly increase their price up and
then they could look like they have the
50% off sale that's garbage that is just
it's very disingenuous when they do this
um don't do that okay if you're going to
become an e-commerce or seller if you're
part of the Sunday group that we have
the Sunday live business group that we
do what I call the mentorship
group we don't do that okay that's not a
thing that we we would do but when it
comes to the people out there this is
what they do the businesses out there
and my goodness it is just it's terrible
but anyway that's the case look at
what's happening here with used vehicles
the the bubble is over but you know you
could say oh look it's minus it's a bare
Market it should have never never have
been in this area ever so yeah it comes
off the top 20% it come off the top 50%
and the price is still too high it's
just like real estate the bubble yeah we
come off 10% and in a lot of cases
actually but the froth you get rid of
the froth and things look a lot
different look if you want to know the
truth you've got to join me and I I've
got so much information for you I've got
so much free stuff for you even compass
compass is the place you need to go to
get the free financial education if you
are the type that wants to be able to
have somebody take a look at your
finances for free you can do that with
money pickle all of that is available to
you for free the money gps.com all right
and then we have the comment of the day
David you consistently provide an
incredible value to your audience and
you provide information one will never
hear on Fox Business or CNBC thanks well
I appreciate your comment and that's the
truth why it's because I'm willing to
accept the truth you can't handle the
truth they said but in my case and in
yours you're still here I know you can
so I appreciate you for being here if
you appreciate this video hit that
thumbs up button on the way out you got
to do that because that tells the
algorithm let's show this video to other
people if you don't hit that thumbs up
it actually will not notify that and
that's why the videos after like 6 hours
they is basically shut off okay so
you've got to do so in order to support
the Channel I want to ask you one more
thing tomorrow this same bat Time same
bat Channel what are you doing you've
got to join me here I hope to see you on
tomorrow's video take care